x/slashing/spec/05_hooks.md, before:

<!--
order: 5
-->

# Hooks

This section contains a description of the module's `hooks`. Hooks are operations that are executed automatically when events are raised.

## Staking hooks

The slashing module implements the `StakingHooks` defined in `x/staking` and are used as record-keeping of validators information. During the app initialization, these hooks should be registered in the staking module struct.

The following hooks impact the slashing state:

+ `AfterValidatorBonded` creates a `ValidatorSigningInfo` instance as described in the following section.
+ `AfterValidatorCreated` stores a validator's consensus key.
+ `AfterValidatorRemoved` removes a validator's consensus key.

## Validator Bonded

Upon successful first-time bonding of a new validator, we create a new `ValidatorSigningInfo` structure for the
now-bonded validator.

```
onValidatorBonded(address sdk.ValAddress)

  signingInfo, found = GetValidatorSigningInfo(address)
  if !found {
    signingInfo = ValidatorSigningInfo {
      JailedUntil         : time.Unix(0, 0),
      Tombstone           : false,
      MissedBloskCounter  : 0,
	  VoterSetCounter     : 0,
    }
    setValidatorSigningInfo(signingInfo)
  }

  return
```

Commit message:

chore: modify missing changes of converting to tendermint (#1179)
* chore: revert ostracon slashing changes (revert #347)

* chore: revert block converting

* chore: revert voter set comments

* chore: update changelog

* chore: update changelog category

x/slashing/spec/05_hooks.md, after:

<!--
order: 5
-->

# Hooks

This section contains a description of the module's `hooks`. Hooks are operations that are executed automatically when events are raised.

## Staking hooks

The slashing module implements the `StakingHooks` defined in `x/staking` and are used as record-keeping of validators information. During the app initialization, these hooks should be registered in the staking module struct.

The following hooks impact the slashing state:

+ `AfterValidatorBonded` creates a `ValidatorSigningInfo` instance as described in the following section.
+ `AfterValidatorCreated` stores a validator's consensus key.
+ `AfterValidatorRemoved` removes a validator's consensus key.

## Validator Bonded

Upon successful first-time bonding of a new validator, we create a new `ValidatorSigningInfo` structure for the
now-bonded validator, which `StartHeight` of the current block.

```
onValidatorBonded(address sdk.ValAddress)

  signingInfo, found = GetValidatorSigningInfo(address)
  if !found {
    signingInfo = ValidatorSigningInfo {
      StartHeight         : CurrentHeight,
      IndexOffset         : 0,
      JailedUntil         : time.Unix(0, 0),
      Tombstone           : false,
      MissedBloskCounter  : 0
    }
    setValidatorSigningInfo(signingInfo)
  }

  return
```
